REPO 2 — heed-sdk
==================
What this is
------------
The actual Heed product. A vanilla JavaScript file that partners embed via a
single script tag. It instruments behavioral hesitation signals on the host
page, classifies intent through a small neural network running entirely
client-side, and fires platform-configured responses as a fixed overlay — 
without touching the host DOM, accessing user data, or requiring any backend
integration.

This repo is built against the dummy platform (Repo 1) but is not dependent
on it. The SDK is generic. The config makes it specific to a platform.
When a real pilot arrives, only the config changes. The SDK ships unchanged.

Why it exists
-------------
This is the thing you are selling. Everything else in this system exists to
prove that this works, generate data to improve it, and prepare you to deploy
it. Building it on the dummy platform means you have already done the
integration work before you sit down with a partner. You know what breaks,
you know what to ask for, and you can answer technical questions from their
engineering team without hedging.

What you will learn building this
----------------------------------
- How browser event listeners work at a low level: touchstart, touchend,
  blur, scroll, popstate — what they fire, when, and what data they carry
- How a feedforward neural network actually works: forward pass, activation
  functions (ReLU, softmax), weight matrices, backpropagation at a conceptual
  level, and why the output is a probability distribution not a hard label
- Why inference has to run client-side (latency — the hesitation window is
  seconds, a server round-trip kills it)
- How postMessage works and why it is the only safe communication channel
  between a sandboxed iframe and a host page
- How a config-as-contract works: why the SDK is generic and the config is
  what makes it specific, and why this is the right architecture for a
  multi-partner product
- What "no PII" actually means in implementation terms — what you explicitly
  do not read, do not store, do not transmit

Stack
-----
- Vanilla JavaScript — no framework, no bundler, no dependencies
- brain.js for the neural network (lightweight, browser-compatible)
- Single file output: sdk.js (what partners embed)
- Config: JSON file hosted on CDN (or localhost during development)
- No backend. No database. No auth. No external API calls during a session.

File structure
--------------
/sdk
  sdk.js          — entry point, orchestrates all layers
  signal.js       — touch event listeners, payload construction
  inference.js    — 2-layer feedforward net, forward pass, weight update
  response.js     — overlay injection, response rendering, clampToViewport
  log.js          — console logging, session event schema

/config
  schema.json     — canonical config schema, every field documented
  demo-platform.json — config for Repo 1 (the dummy platform)

/admin
  weights.js      — cold-start weight initialization, weight serialization

Signal capture layer (signal.js)
---------------------------------
Mobile-only signal set. No mouse events. No hover. Touch only.

Four signals, each producing a normalized event payload:
  { type, targetSelector, bbox, timestamp }
  No field values. No user identity. Geometry and timing only.

Signal 1 — touch hesitation (replaces desktop dwell)
  touchstart fires on a target element. A timer starts. If touchend fires
  within 300ms, it is a normal tap. If touchend does not fire within 300ms
  (configurable threshold, default 800ms), it is a held touch — hesitation.
  Payload: type="touch_hesitation", bbox of the element, duration held.

Signal 2 — blur without completion
  An input field receives focus (touchstart on input). The field loses focus
  (blur event) without the value having changed from empty. The user tapped
  into a field and left without entering anything.
  Payload: type="blur_incomplete", bbox of the input.

Signal 3 — scroll reversal
  User scrolls down past a threshold (configurable, default 40% of viewport
  height), then scrolls back up. Indicates the user reviewed content and
  retreated rather than proceeding.
  Payload: type="scroll_reversal", scroll depth at reversal point.

Signal 4 — back intent
  popstate event fires (browser back or swipe-back gesture) while
  flowComplete is false. User is leaving the flow before completing it.
  Payload: type="back_intent", current pathname.

All four signals are emitted to the inference layer via an internal event
bus. No signal ever leaves the browser except for the weight push at session
end (a single POST containing only the updated weight array).

Inference layer (inference.js)
-------------------------------
A 2-layer feedforward neural network. This is the piece that makes Heed
non-rule-based. A lookup table would encode a human's assumption about what
signal maps to what intent. The net learns that mapping from session outcomes.

Architecture:
  Input layer:  4 nodes — one per signal type
                [normalizedTouchHesitation, blurFlag,
                 normalizedReversalCount, backFlag]
                All values normalized to [0, 1]
  Hidden layer: 4 nodes, ReLU activation
  Output layer: 4 nodes, softmax activation
                Intent classes: confusion, price_doubt, trust_gap,
                                flow_friction

Forward pass:
  input vector → multiply by W1 weight matrix → add b1 bias → ReLU →
  multiply by W2 → add b2 → softmax → output: [confidence per class]
  The class with the highest confidence is the predicted intent.
  If max confidence < threshold (default 0.65), no response fires.

Weight update:
  Fires ONCE at session end, not per-event.
  Outcome label: 1 if flowComplete === true, 0 if abandoned.
  Learning rate: 0.01 (low because sessions yield 1-3 labeled examples).
  Updated weights are pushed to CDN via weightPushUrl in config.

Cold-start weights (admin/weights.js):
  Structured guesses based on domain knowledge:
  - touch_hesitation maps primarily to confusion
  - blur_incomplete maps primarily to flow_friction
  - scroll_reversal maps primarily to price_doubt
  - back_intent maps primarily to trust_gap
  These are not random. They are informed starting points that will be
  corrected by actual session data.

Why a net and not a lookup table:
  Signals do not map to intents in isolation. Scroll reversal alone might be
  casual browsing. Scroll reversal plus blur_incomplete on the fee row is
  price hesitation. The hidden layer learns these combinations. A lookup
  table cannot represent non-linear combinations. This is the architectural
  claim that separates Heed from rule-based tools — it must be implemented
  correctly, not approximated.

Response layer (response.js)
-----------------------------
A single div injected into document.body at init:
  position: fixed; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;
  pointer-events: none; z-index: 2147483647; overflow: hidden;

Response elements rendered inside get pointer-events: auto.
The host DOM is untouched. The overlay sits on top. Removing it is one line.

Positioning: uses bbox from the signal payload. clampToViewport() ensures
the response stays within iOS safe area insets on mobile.

V0 response types:
  tooltip         — contextual text anchored to the hesitation element
  nudge_copy      — a brief reassurance or clarification
  discount_offer  — fires a postMessage to the host with a CTA payload.
                    Heed does not fulfill the offer. That is the platform's
                    system. Heed only signals that the window exists.
  social_proof    — brief trust signal relevant to the hesitation screen

Config layer (config/schema.json + demo-platform.json)
-------------------------------------------------------
The config is what makes the generic SDK specific to a platform.
Partners provide inputs. You translate inputs into config. They never
edit JSON directly.

Key fields:
  signals.*.targets       — data-heed selectors for elements to watch
  inference.confidenceThreshold — fire threshold (default 0.65)
  inference.weights       — {W1, b1, W2, b2} per-partner weight matrices
  responses.*             — per-intent-class copy and response type
  activeScreens           — pathnames where SDK is active (silent elsewhere)
  completionSelector      — selector or route that marks flow success
  weightPushUrl           — endpoint for session-end weight persistence
  logLevel                — "verbose" in development, "silent" in production

The demo-platform.json config uses the data-heed selectors from Repo 1.
This is where the contract between Repo 1 and Repo 2 is formalized.

Logging layer (log.js)
-----------------------
Every entry: { ts, sessionId, partnerId, event, data }
Event types: signal_detected, inference_run, response_fired,
             response_dismissed, flow_complete, flow_abandoned

All logs via: console.log('[heed]', JSON.stringify(entry))
Async POST stub is commented out. Schema does not change when it activates.
Persistence is additive — the console log IS the log format.

SPA safety (MutationObserver + popstate)
-----------------------------------------
The dummy platform is a Next.js SPA. Route changes do not reload the page —
a subtree swaps while the shell stays mounted. Heed must re-attach listeners
when the route changes, but must not double-attach on the same route.

Strategy:
  MutationObserver on document.body — fires on any DOM mutation
  popstate listener — fires on programmatic route changes
  Both paths gate on: has window.location.pathname changed since last attach?
  If yes, run attachListeners(config) again.
  Track instrumented elements in a WeakSet — idempotent re-attachment,
  no double-firing regardless of observer frequency.

This is not a detail. This is what makes the SDK work on real SPA platforms.
Understanding why it is necessary is part of what this build teaches you.

Waterfall position
------------------
Built SECOND, after Repo 1 exists and all data-heed selectors are confirmed.
The config (demo-platform.json) is written against those selectors.
The signal layer is tested manually on the dummy platform before Repo 3
runs automated sessions through it.

Manual testing sequence (before Repo 3):
  1. Load dummy platform with script tag in browser DevTools, mobile viewport
  2. Trigger touch hesitation: press and hold the proceed CTA
  3. Trigger blur incomplete: tap into amount field, tap away without typing
  4. Trigger scroll reversal: scroll down past fee row, scroll back up
  5. Trigger back intent: tap back button before reaching success screen
  6. Confirm log sequence: signal_detected → inference_run → response_fired
  7. Confirm overlay renders above platform UI without blocking interaction
  8. Confirm no logs fire on Screen 1 (not in activeScreens)

Completion criteria
-------------------
- All 4 signal types fire and produce correct log entries on the dummy platform
- Inference forward pass produces a confidence score and intent class
- Response overlay renders correctly on 390px viewport with iOS safe area
- Weight update fires once at session end and posts to weightPushUrl
- Config validation hard-fails on invalid schema
- No PII in any payload — verified by reading every outbound call
